Setting up your personal configuration
======================================

Setting up your personal configuration can be done in many ways, and
the ideas are probably many.  Usually, that would involve editing your
configuration startup file, $HOME/.monotone/monotonerc, personalising
it, adding includes of other lua files, pasting snippets of code into
it, you name it.

Another way could be to borrow from server setup idea (see
../server-setup/README) and have $HOME/.monotone/monotonerc only be a
couple of includes and let the rest be a matter of putting the right
files in the right place.  In a personal setup, it's not as elaborate
a thing to do as it is with the server setup, as it doesn't involve
creating a new user, adding a new database specifically for this,
setting up ownership, setting up the startup of a monotone process.
All that's needed is set up a few files and maybe change permissions a
bit.


Creating and populating files and directories
---------------------------------------------

For starters, let's create a directory to drop snippets of code in:

  mkdir $HOME/.monotone/hooks.d

Now, it's time to add a generic monotonerc.  All this one does is to
load files matching *.conf and *.lua that are placed in the hooks.d we
just created.
However, maybe you already have a file $HOME/.monotone/monotonerc that
you've edited and have precious stuff in.  No biggie, let's start with
putting it away, making it the first lua file that will get loaded:

  mv $HOME/.monotone/monotonerc $HOME/.monotone/hooks.d/000-orig-rc.lua

Now that this is done, all you have to do is to copy the monotonerc
that you find in this directory (please replace /PATH/TO with the
correct path for it) to your configuration directory:

  cp /PATH/TO/monotonerc $HOME/.monotone/monotonerc

Voil√†, you're done!  The behaviour of monotone won't have changed a
bit.


Adding hooks
------------

At this point, you might be interested in a few snippets of code to
place in your $HOME/.monotone/hooks.d.  I suggest you have a walk
around in the contribution directory (contrib/ in the monotone source
or documentation directory) and examples directory (examples/) and
have a look.  Beware, though, that some of the scripts found there are
made for server setups and probably won't do you much good.

Here are a few that you might be interested in:

  - contrib/get_passphrase_from_file.lua 
		This will use the file 'passphrases' in the monotone
		configuration directory ($HOME/.monotone/) to open any
		of the keys defined there that it needs to use.
		Take care of 'passphrases', protect it well.
		Something like this should do the trick pretty well:

		  chmod 600 $HOME/.monotone/passphrases

		If you want to be even more careful, you might want to
		protect the directory as well:

		  chmod 700 $HOME/.monotone/

  - examples/display_branches.lua
		After doing a push, a pull or a sync, this will
		display on which branches revisions were sent or
		received, and how many there were on each branch.
