Contributing to monotone
========================

Coding standards
----------------

Code is largely formatted according to the GNU coding standards, but there
are minor deviations.  Where the coding style differs from the standard
please follow the coding style of the particular file you're making changes
to so that formatting consistency is retained within that file.

All source indentation should be done using spaces, with two space
characters per indentation level.

The appropriate Emacs modeline to use for editing source is:

-*- mode: C++; c-file-style: "gnu"; indent-tabs-mode: nil; c-basic-offset: 2 -*-

And something close (but not perfect) for VIM:

vim: et:sw=2:sts=2:ts=2:cino={.5s,\:.5s,+.5s,t0,g0,^-2,e-2,n-2,p2s,(0,=.5s:

monotone's source includes a number of third party libraries.  These have
been imported from upstream, and should retain the original coding style of
the particular library in all cases.  This makes life easier when a
developer needs to send our fixes upstream or wants to import new upstream
versions into monotone.


Test suites, and writing test cases
----------------------------------

monotone includes a number of unit and integration tests.  These can be run
easily by initiating a 'make check'.  The test suite (or, at least, any
tests potentially affected by your change) should be run before you
distribute your changes.

Automated build bots run the complete test suite on a regularly basis, so
any problems will be noticed quickly, but it is still faster to find and fix
any problems locally rather than waiting for the build bots to alert the
development team of a problem.

All changes to monotone that alter monotone's behaviour should include a new
test.  This includes most changes, but use your judgement about adding tests
for very small changes..  The tests are located in the source tree in the
tests/ directory, documentation on writing tests is available in
tests/README.

When fixing a bug, check for an existing test case for that bug and
carefully observe the test case's behaviour before and after your fix. If no
test case exists, it is strongly recommended to write a test case before
attempting to fix the bug.


Reporting errors to the user
----------------------------

monotone has a number of assertion macros available for different
situations.  These assertion macros are divided into three categories:
invariants, user naughtiness, and general errors.

Invariants assert that monotone's internal state is in the expected state.
An invariant failure indicates that there is a bug in monotone.  e.g.

    I(r_working.edges.size() == 1);

User naughtiness handles error conditions where the user has asked monotone
to do something it is unable to.  e.g.

    N(completions.size() != 0,
        F("no match for selection '%s'") % str);

Error conditions handle most other error cases, where monotone is unable to
complete an operation due to an error, but that error is not caused by a bug
in monotone or explicit user error.  e.g.

    E(converted != NULL,
        F("failed to convert string from %s to %s: '%s'")
            % src_charset % dst_charset % src);

Each of these assertion macros are fatal and will cause an exception to be
thrown that will ultimately cause the monotone process to exit.  Exceptions
are used (rather than C-style abort() based assertions) so that the stack
will unwind and cause the destructors for objects allocated on the stack to
run.  This allows monotone to leave the user's database and working copy in
as logical a state as possible.  Any in-flight uncommitted database
transactions will be aborted.  Operations occurring on a working copy may
leave the working copy in an inconsistent state, as we do not have a way to
atomically update the working copy.


Patch submission guidelines
---------------------------

Mail patches to 'monotone-devel@nongnu.org' with a subject beginning with
'[PATCH]' and followed by a brief description of the patch.  The body of the
message should contain a description of the patch with reasoning for why the
changes are required, followed by a prepared ChangeLog entry.  Patches may
be included inline in a message, or attached as a text/plain, text/x-diff,
or text/x-patch attachment.  Make sure your mailer does not mangle the
patch (e.g. by wrapping lines in the patch) before sending your patch to the
list.

All changes to the monotone source require an accompanying ChangeLog entry.
Any changes that affect the user interface (e.g. adding command-line
options, changing the output format) or affect the documented behaviour of
monotone must include appropriate appropriate changes to the documentation.

The monotone development team review and comment on all patches on a
best-efforts basis.  Patches are never ignored, but a patch may not be
discussed or applied immediately according to the amount of spare time the
developers have.  Don't be discouraged if you don't receive an immediate
response, and if you feel that your patch has slipped through the cracks,
post a follow up reminder message with a pointer to the original message in
the mailing list archives.


Third-party code
----------------

monotone contains parts of a number of third-party libraries, including but
not limited to: Lua, Popt, Crypto++, SQLite, Netxx, and libidn.  See AUTHORS
for complete details on the included third-party code and the copyrights and
licenses of each portion.

From time to time, bug fixes to this third-party code are required.  These
fixes should be made in the monotone versions of the code first to solve the
immediate problem.  In all cases that make sense (i.e. for general bug
fixes), the change should also be sent to the upstream developers for
inclusion in the next release.

In a small number of cases, a change made to our local version of the
third-party code may not make sense to send upstream.  In this case, make a
note of this in the file you're changing and in the ChangeLog so that this
permanent deviation is documented.
