Monotone::AutomateStdio Version 0.3
===================================

This is a Perl library module for accessing Monotone's automate stdio
interface. Monotone is a distributed, change-set, based VCS system. It has a
mode where commands can be sent to it via STDIN and output read from it via
STDOUT. Monontone::AutomateStdio makes use of this facility to provide the Perl
programmer with a programmatic interface to Monotone.

For further details on Monotone see http://monotone.ca. For further details on
Monotone::AutomateStdio see http://www.coosoft.plus.com/software.html.


INSTALLATION
------------

Simply unpack the tar file and use Makefile.PL by doing:

    tar xvpzf Monotone-AutomateStdio-<Version Number>.tar.gz
    cd Monotone-AutomateStdio-<Version Number>
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

To install to a custom location use:

    perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=<PATH>

To configure the software to run in a custom location but have the installation
location prepended by an additional path (useful for package maintainers) use:

    perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=<PATH> DESTDIR=<PATH>

Please note that automated testing of this library module is still `work in
progress'. There is a test harness called mtn-tester that can be used to test
most important features of this library. However, it does require not only the
installation of Monotone, as you would expect, but also a test database with
certain revisions and files in it. At the moment this is done by using a
dedicated branch in the main Monotone database found at monotone.ca. The test
branch is called net.venge.monotone.contrib.lib.automate-stdio.test.

In time I hope to write a Monotone emulator that generates the required output
to test the library, or perhaps just have a smaller database generated on the
fly.


DEPENDENCIES
------------

This module requires these other modules and libraries:

    * Perl 5.8.5

Older versions of Perl may work but these have not been tested at this point in
time.


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE
---------------------

Copyright (c) 2007 Anthony Edward Cooper <aecooper@coosoft.plus.com>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA.
