[[!tag migration-done]]
[[!toc levels=3]]

January Mini Summit
===================

The January 2009 Mini Summit is currently scheduled for January 17 and 18, 2009 
and will be held via IRC and the mailing list.

Summit Agenda
-------------

Until January 12, 2009, consider this list to be subject to change.  Feel free 
to add your own ideas.

### Finish Wiki Migration and Reorganization ###

We need to come up with a way to reorganize the new wiki and finish up the 
migration.

### Reorganize [[QuickieTasks]] into a "Tasks" section ###

The [[QuickieTasks]] section should be reorganized into a larger Tasks section 
of the wiki.  The idea here is to give people with time and skills a direction 
to move towards.  Ideally this new section would contain implementation ideas 
for all of the features we discuss on the mailing list.  For an example, see 
[[PartialPull]].

### Concurrent Access to a Single Monotone Database ####

This has been discussed a few times, I'm not sure if a solution has already 
come up. A few ideas on this topic have been floating around for a while. As 
far as I'm concerned, I'd like to have one database file to which I sync from 
my workstation or laptop, and have another process (viewmtn or a self written 
PHP equivalent) accessing that database at the same time. Maybe for this 
specific problem there could be other solutions (besides mtn automate) than 
concurrently accessing the repository on the database/sqlite level.

### Integrating a 'branch rename' Command ###

Currently I have a shell script available which was posted on the Monotone Wiki 
some time ago. With future changes to monotone it maybe uncertain how long that 
script will keep working. Next point is, one does always need to have that 
script available, since renamings must happen on all affected locations. 
Therefore, and as I have to use branch renaming quite often, it would be nice 
if that function could be integrated into the mtn binary.

### Scratch Your Itch Here ###

Feel free to work on whatever you feel like working on during the summit.  
Please make your intentions known here.

