[[tag migration-wip]]
# monotone wiki

This is the wiki for the version control system 
[monotone](http://monotone.ca/monotone).

monotone is a free distributed version control system. it provides a simple, single-file transactional version store, with fully disconnected operation and an efficient peer-to-peer synchronization protocol. it understands history-sensitive merging, lightweight branches, integrated code review and 3rd party testing. it uses cryptographic version naming and client-side RSA certificates. it has good internationalization support, few external dependencies, and runs on unix, OSX, windows, and is licensed under the GNU GPL.

*This page will be changed over time to be mostly autogenerated based
on tags and other pagespec details.  It mostly exists now to provide
a useful collection of brokenlinks at [[wiki]].*

# For Users
### About Monotone
 * [[Hosting]]
 * [[ProjectsUsingMonotone]]
 * [[EvaluationFeatures]]
 * [[Testimonials]]
 * [[Talks]]
 * [[People]]
 * [[MtnSummit2008]]

### Getting Monotone
 * [[BuildingOnWindows]] and [[BuildingOnWindows/VisualC8]]
 * [[BuildingOnMac]]
 * [[BuildingOnSolaris]]
 * [[BuildingViaPkgsrc]] on a wide variety of platforms
 * [[MonotoneOnDebian]]
 * [[SelfHostingInfo]]

### Using Monotone
 * [[InterfacesFrontendsAndTools]] -- other programs that work with monotone
 * [[EssentialMonotone]] -- the minimal commands needed to get anything done
 * [[AlternativeOverview]] -- a different order than the [http://venge.net/monotone/docs/Tutorial.html Tutorial] for introducing monotone capabilites
 * [[BestPractices]] -- best practices for using monotone
 * [[MasterRepository]] -- Master Repositories you might be used to with a centralised VCS, and why you don't need one with monotone.
 * [[MonotoneAndCVS]] -- different ways of working with CVS and monotone.
 * [[UsingCerts]] -- how certs work, and don't, in practice.
 * [[TrustFoundations]] -- the basics of monotone's trust model, and how it works with certs
 * [[BranchAnalogy]] -- understanding how monotone's branches work, and might be different to other tools.  
 * [[BranchNamingConventions]] and [[BranchRenaming]] -- discussions about how to name your branches and what to do when you change your mind.
 * [[DaggyFixes]] -- handling bug fixes, backports, and cherry picking
 * [[TipsTricksScripts]] -- useful snippets for getting more out of monotone
 * [[TroubleShooting]] -- what to try when things aren't working
 * [[RosterifyingPrivateBranches]] -- specific issues for those migrating private changes from monotone 0.25 and earlier to 0.26 and later.
 * [[ReferenceCard]] - quick overview of monotone commands
 * [[Glossary]] -- an explanation of some terms
 * [[AutomateMagic]] -- some nifty things you can do with the automation interface
 * [[WishList]] -- a list of features some people would like to have

## For Developers of Monotone
 * [[QuickieTasks]] -- This is a good starting point for new developers.
 * [[NeedReview]]
 * [[AutomateWishlist]]
 * [[TrustDiscussion]]
 * [[NetsyncTodo]]
 * [[RostersTodo]]
 * [[MagicSelectors]]
 * [[BranchStatuses]]
 * [[BugSquashingParty]]
 * [[AttrUseCases]]
 * [[HistoryBlueSky]]
 * [[TestHarnessIssues]]
 * [[TestIntro]]
 * [[BuildBot]]
 * [[MergeViaWorkingDir]]
 * [[DatabaseLocking]]
 * [[CaseInsensitiveFilesystems]]
 * [[FileSystemIssues]]
 * [[Win32DeviceFiles]]
 * [[RevertUI]]
 * [[SymLinks]]
 * [[IPv6]]
 * [[BranchUI]]
 * [[SurveyQuestions]]
 * [[RootDirRenaming]]
 * [[I18nL10n]]
 * [[PerformanceWork]]
 * [[AutoInodeprints]]
 * [[DeltaStorageStrategies]]
 * [[LineEndingMunging]]
 * [[NonMergeConflicts]]
 * [[DocTodo]]
 * [[CarrotAndStick]]
 * [[CustomCerts]]
 * [[TimeStamps]]
 * [[VersionedPolicy]]
 * [[ThingsStatusShouldShow]]
 * [[CherryPicking]]
 * [[PieceCache]]
 * [[SpeedySpeedySHA1]]
 * [[CertCleanup]]
 * [[RevisionNumbering]] (Heights)
 * [[NotesOnTestingChangesetify]]
 * [[WorkspaceConflicts]]
 * [[DatabaseCompaction]]
 * [[ConflictFixupPolicy]]
 * [[KeystoreFiles]]
 * [[LogUI]]
 * [[SimplerIgnoreMechanism]]
 * [[RoadMap]]
 * [[AutomateVersions]]

### Previous Activities
 * [[SummerOfCode2006]]
 * [[MtnSummit]] -- Mtn View 2007

### Interesting starting points:
 * [[RecentChanges]]: see where people are currently working
 * [[SandBox]]: feel free to change this page and experiment with editing
 * [[FindPage]]: search or browse the database in various ways
 * [[ikiwiki/formatting]]: quick access to wiki syntax

---

This wiki is powered by [[ikiwiki]]

