[[tag migration-wip]]

*This page is mostly out of date: rosters have been part of mainline monotone since the 0.26 release.*

There is a mailing list post by NJS explaining [http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/monotone-devel/2005-11/msg00102.html what rosters are].

----

`grep -E "FIXME.ROSTER" *.cc *.hh`

# Todo before real release

 * tests for roster_merge
 * make sure db check is good?
 * basic root dir stuff, so people can import sutured root dirs
 * cvs_import branch reconstruction would be very nice, but not a blocker
 * merge via working dir would be very nice, but not a blocker

# Still needed for baseline functionality

 * we need to figure out what to do about cvs_import -- that it does not connect branches makes it much less useful than we would like!
 * what's the status of db check?

# Unit Tests Needed:
 * simple cset tests
   * ordering of complex renames handled correctly - some tests done, perhaps add more
 * cset reading tests
   * detect non-normalized-whitespace-ness - tricky, requires teaching the parser about whitespace ??
 * test equal_up_to_renumbering
 * RostersTodo/MarkAndMergeTests

# Smaller tweaks:

 * review docs to see if anything needs changing

# Would be nice

(read: "work on this is cool, but don't expect someone else to do it, and before doing it think about whether there's anything above you can do first")

 * interactive conflict resolution for tree rearrangements (for now, rename conflicts etc. still fault)
 * docs on merge algorithm for advanced users
 * restrictions code is a horrible mess -- make_restricted_cset(roster_t, roster_t, cset&)?  
 * change restriction semantics to make sense now that we have directories -- yadda-yadda-yadda wildcards?  ("commit foo" vs. "commit foo/...")?
 * attribute hooks that are called on attr changes, rather than every time we squint at the working dir funny
 * split_path and file_path distinction is seeming sillier and sillier
 * some sort of state tracking for temp/non-temp and insane/sane rosters?

# Deferred

 * MergeViaWorkingDir
 * git_import (unless pasky wakes up and tells us what's going on with it)
