Thomas Keller schrieb:
> Furthermore we should also look later on on those pages which have not 
> yet been converted if they're worth of being converted at all (things 
> like new pages which contain just one implementation idea might be moved 
> somewhere else, for example).

Here is my list of pages which probably should be mangled / deleted (all 
from the -auto list of pages):

	ZeroConf
the remaining contents should be moved to QuickieTasks or some Ideas 
page (We might want to clean out the Summit and SoC "Ideas" pages of 
things which have been accomplished already and start a general "Ideas" 
page - what do you think?)

	CustomCerts
content should be moved into UsingCerts

	CvsSync
should be removed, renaming CvsSync3 to CvsSync?

	CvsSyncHints
content should be moved into CvsSync or CvsSync/Hints, no need for a 
separate page in rootline

	DifferentDbsForServeAndWork
should be moved into or below the new Ideas/ page.

	DocTodo
anybody really considering this on his personal todo? should be moved to 
Ideas/DocumentationImprovements or something similar

	EssentialMonotone
this very much reminds me that I should finally come around with a 
completed cheat sheet of the mtn command reference - I started on one 
some time ago in contrib/ - this page should, however, either be 
completed or removed and/or point to the appropriate manual section. 
Please also note that there exists a ReferenceCard page...

	IPv6
whats left on this todo list is IPv6 testing - this one item should be 
moved to Ideas or QuickieTasks

	Keystorefiles
move this to Ideas

	LogUI
clean this up and move it under Ideas/

	MonotoneAndCVS
would be a great entry page for the CvsSync & friends pages, no?

	NeedReview
I'd drop this page in favour of the BranchStatuses page where one could 
/ should clearly see which branch needs a review and which not...

	NetsyncTodo
move to Ideas/NetsyncImprovements with a hint maybe to nuskool

	OldTestHarnessIssues
as the name implicates, this is old and should probably completly removed.

	OneBranchPerDbForServe
this is already listed on BestPractices and should probably be moved 
under this page (the same goes for all other pages listed there)

	ReferenceCard
should be cleaned up and used in favour of EssentialMonotone

	RelativePathnames
move it into the TipsTricksScripts page? We could move AutomateMagic and 
several other missing ones there as well to get a better grouping.

	RoadMap
delete this, it just didn't work out (i.e. nobody really used it)

	RootDirRenaming
drop that, we have pivot_root

	RosterifyingPrivateBranches
seems to match best under some Upgrade/ page

	RostersTodo
uhh, another Todo page - clean up and move to Ideas/.

	RostersTodo/MarkAndMergeTests
Nathaniels comment about super-safer-complete test coverage was 
apparently already fulfilled... no serious bugs in his code ;) Shall we 
maybe move this and other similar wiki pages to an Attic/ directory or 
simply remove them?

	SimplerIgnoreMechanism
move to Ideas/

	SymLinks
move to Ideas/

	TestHarnessIssues
move to Ideas/LuaTestImprovements or something similar

	TestHarnessIssues/CleanUpTestNames
uhh... wow. anybody still up for that?

	TestHardnessUseCases
remove that

	ThingsStatusShouldShow
move to Ideas/

	TimeStamps
the same

	WishList
should be merged / cleaned up with the Ideas/ pages


Thanks that you read until here - now a few things become apparent after 
going through all these pages:

a) it might be useful to further group stuff under Ideas/ if we really 
want to move all the above mentioned things in there

b) a better grouping eases the navigation in the wiki's contents a lot 
_and_ should help us also to create a much better frontpage for first 
time users

c) with all this wiki-niceness when it comes to feature requests, we may 
have forgotten those which still reside in savannah - I have the feeling 
that we should use this a bit more anyways - or choose a different 
system which incorporates better with the other things we use. One 
simple thing to start on would be f.e. to move over feature requests 
from savannah to the wiki and disallow the "feature" ticket type there

In the end I don't know if people are up for more organisation - we 
develop a distributed vcs, people work distributed, think distributed 
and obviously write distributed / rather unorganized. The above list was 
my obvious attempt to centralize and organize a few things better, but 
still, I have no idea if this is actually _wanted_ by the rest of the 
crowd...

Thomas.

-- 
GPG-Key 0x160D1092 | tommyd3mdi@jabber.ccc.de | http://thomaskeller.biz
Please note that according to the EU law on data retention, information
on every electronic information exchange might be retained for a period
of six months or longer: http://www.vorratsdatenspeicherung.de/?lang=en


